Adding How To Guides for .NET for Apache Spark (#20778)
dotnet/docs: docs/spark/how-to-guides/dotnet-interactive-udf-issue.md

---

> title: Using UDFs in .NET for Apache Spark interactive shells.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Write UDFs in .NET for Apache Spark interactive environments.
```

description: Learn how to write and call UDFs in .NET for Apache Spark interactive shells.
ms.date: 09/24/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: mvc,how-to
---

> # How to write UDFs in .NET for Apache Spark interactive shells

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to write UDFs in .NET for Apache Spark interactive environments
```

> In this article you will learn how to use UDFs in a .NET for Apache Spark interactive environment, a couple of important caveats to keep in mind, and why Broadcast Variables don't work with .NET for Apache Spark interactive experiences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this article you will learn how to use User Defined Functions (UDFs) in a .NET for Apache Spark interactive environment. 
```

## Prerequisites

1. Install [.NET Interactive](https://github.com/dotnet/interactive)
2. Install [Jupyter lab](https://jupyter.org/)

## .NET for Apach Spark Interactive experience

> [.NET for Apache Spark](https://github.com/dotnet/spark) uses [.NET Interactive](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/net-interactive-is-here-net-notebooks-preview-2/) to provide .NET support for interactive experience inside Spark. Kindly go through the [official docs](https://github.com/dotnet/interactive) to understand how to setup the environment to try .NET Interactive with Jupyter notebooks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[.NET for Apache Spark](https://github.com/dotnet/spark) uses [.NET Interactive](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/net-interactive-is-here-net-notebooks-preview-2/) to provide .NET support for interactive experience inside Spark. To understand how to setup the environment to try .NET Interactive with Jupyter notebooks, see the [.NET Interactive repository](https://github.com/dotnet/interactive).
```

Also, it is recommended to go through [this article about UDF serialization in .NET for Apache Spark](udf-guide.md) to understand what UDFs are and how they are serialized in .NET for Apache Spark.

> We will be using Jupyter Notebooks to illustrate how to use UDFs in an interactive experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide uses Jupyter Notebooks to illustrate how to use UDFs in an interactive experience.
```

## UDF serialization in .NET Interactive

> In the interactive experience, a cell can be thought of as the code snippet being submitted as part of one iteration of the [REPL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Read%E2%80%93eval%E2%80%93print_loop). For example, let's take a look at the following notebook to understand what that means:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the interactive experience, a cell can be thought of as the code snippet being submitted as part of one iteration of the [REPL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Read%E2%80%93eval%E2%80%93print_loop). For example, take a look at the following notebook to understand what that means:
```

![Jupyter Notebook cells](./media/dotnet-interactive/dotnet-interactive-cells.png)

> Each of those blocks marked by the red arrow is one cell, or one submission of code to Spark. .NET Interactive wraps each of these cells with a wrapper class of the cell submission number, to uniquely identify each cell being submitted. Now as explained in detail in [this guide](udf-guide.md), when a UDF that references a custom object is being serialized its target is also picked up for serialization, which in the case of .NET Interactive gets wrapped by the wrapper class of the cell where the custom object is defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of those blocks marked by the red arrow is one cell, or one submission of code to Spark. .NET Interactive wraps each of these cells with a wrapper class of the cell submission number, to uniquely identify each cell being submitted. As explained in detail in [the UDF guide](udf-guide.md), when a UDF that references a custom object is serialized, its target is also picked up for serialization. In the case of .NET Interactive, it gets wrapped by the wrapper class of the cell where the custom object is defined.
```

Now let's see how that affects our UDF definition in the notebook:

![UDF serialization error](./media/dotnet-interactive/udf-serialization-error.png)

> As can be seen in the case of `udf2_fails`, we see the error message which says Type `Submission#7` is not marked as serializable, this is because how .NET Interactive works is it wraps every object defined in a cell with its `Submission#` class which is generated on the fly and hence is not marked as `Serializable`, hence the error.

Reviewer: See the second inline snippet `Submission#`. Is that right?

Author: Yes, it refers to the submission#<cell_number> compiler generated class that wraps the submission logic inside the cell.

> For this reason, it is required that a UDF referencing a custom object in it, is defined in the same cell as that object.

Reviewer: Highlight this point

```suggestion
For this reason, it is **required that a UDF referencing a custom object in it, is defined in the same cell as that object**.
```

## Calling a UDF on a DataFrame

When calling a previously defined UDF on a `DataFrame` it is important to make sure the UDF is defined in a previously submitted cell, before calling it.
For example, let's use the UDF shown in the previous example and call it on a DataFrame:

![working UDF call](./media/dotnet-interactive/udf_works.png)

Now let's see what happens if we call the UDF in the same cell where it is defined.

![failing UDF call](./media/dotnet-interactive/udf_fails.png)

The above highlighted error is because the UDF assemblies need to first be compiled and shipped to the workers before it can be called on a DataFrame.

## Why Broadcast Variables don't work with .NET Interactive

> The above explained behavior is the reason why Broadcast Variables don't work with .NET Interactive. It is a good idea to go through [this guide on Broadcast Variables](broadcast-guide.md) to get a deeper understanding of what Broadcast variables are and how to use them. The reason Broadcast Variables don't work with interactive scenarios is because of .NET interactive's design of appending each object defined in a cell with it's cell submission class, which since is not marked serialzizable, fails with the same exception as shown previously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the reasons explained above, broadcast variables don't work with .NET Interactive. It is a good idea to go through [this guide on broadcast variables](broadcast-guide.md) to get a deeper understanding of what broadcast variables are and how to use them. The reason broadcast variables don't work with interactive scenarios is because of .NET interactive's design of appending each object defined in a cell with it's cell submission class, which since is not marked serializable, fails with the same exception as shown previously.
```

Let's dive a little deeper with the following example:

![Broadcast Variables fail](./media/dotnet-interactive/broadcast-fails.png)

> As recommended in the previous sections, we define both the UDF and the object it is referencing (Broadcast variable in this case) in the same cell, but we still see the `SerializationException` error complaining about `Microsoft.Spark.Sql.Session` not being marked as serializable. This is because when the compiler tries to serialize the Broadcast variable object `bv`, it finds its name to be appended with [`SparkSession`](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/blob/master/src/csharp/Microsoft.Spark/Sql/SparkSession.cs#L20) object `spark` which it requires to be marked as serializable. This can be demonstrated with more ease by taking a peek at the decompiled assembly of this cell submission:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As recommended in the previous sections, we define both the UDF and the object it is referencing (broadcast variable in this case) in the same cell, but we still see the `SerializationException` error complaining about `Microsoft.Spark.Sql.Session` not being marked as serializable. This is because when the compiler tries to serialize the broadcast variable object `bv`, it finds its name to be appended with [`SparkSession`](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/blob/master/src/csharp/Microsoft.Spark/Sql/SparkSession.cs#L20) object `spark` which it requires to be marked as serializable. This can be demonstrated with more ease by taking a peek at the decompiled assembly of this cell submission:
```

![Decompiled Assembly code](./media/dotnet-interactive/decompiledAssembly.png)

> If we mark the [`SparSession`](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/blob/master/src/csharp/Microsoft.Spark/Sql/SparkSession.cs#L20) class as `[Serializable]`, we can get this to work, but this is not an ideal solution as we don't want to give the user the ability to serialize a SparkSession object, as that could lead to some very weird undesirable behavior. This is a known issue and being tracked [here](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/issues/619) and will be resolved in future versions.

Reviewer: Not sure if we should link to the GitHub issue in docs. I'll check in on that.

> These are a few important things to keep in mind while implementing UDFs in .NET for Apache Spark interactive experience (such as [Azure Synapse Notebooks](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/synapse-analytics/spark/apache-spark-development-using-notebooks)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are a few important things to keep in mind while implementing UDFs in .NET for Apache Spark interactive experience (such as [Azure Synapse Notebooks](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/synapse-analytics/spark/apache-spark-development-using-notebooks)).
```

---

> title: Write UDFs in .NET for Apache Spark interactive environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Write and call UDFs in .NET for Apache Spark interactive environments.
```

description: Learn how to write and call UDFs in .NET for Apache Spark interactive shells.

> ms.date: 09/24/2020

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 10/09/2020
```

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: mvc,how-to
---

> # How to write UDFs in .NET for Apache Spark interactive environments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Write and call UDFs in .NET for Apache Spark interactive environments
```

In this article you will learn how to use User Defined Functions (UDFs) in a .NET for Apache Spark interactive environment.

## Prerequisites

1. Install [.NET Interactive](https://github.com/dotnet/interactive)
2. Install [Jupyter lab](https://jupyter.org/)

## .NET for Apach Spark Interactive experience

[.NET for Apache Spark](https://github.com/dotnet/spark) uses [.NET Interactive](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/net-interactive-is-here-net-notebooks-preview-2/) to provide .NET support for interactive experience inside Spark. To understand how to setup the environment to try .NET Interactive with Jupyter notebooks, see the [.NET Interactive repository](https://github.com/dotnet/interactive).

Also, it is recommended to go through [this article about UDF serialization in .NET for Apache Spark](udf-guide.md) to understand what UDFs are and how they are serialized in .NET for Apache Spark.
This guide uses Jupyter Notebooks to illustrate how to use UDFs in an interactive experience.

> ## Defining a User-defined Function (UDF) in .NET Interactive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Define a UDF in .NET Interactive
```

In the interactive experience, a cell can be thought of as the code snippet being submitted as part of one iteration of the [REPL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Read%E2%80%93eval%E2%80%93print_loop). For example, take a look at the following notebook to understand what that means:

![Jupyter Notebook cells](./media/dotnet-interactive/dotnet-interactive-cells.png)

Each of those blocks marked by the red arrow is one cell, or one submission of code to Spark. Now when defining a UDF that references a custom user-defined object, it is required that the UDF be defined in the same cell where the object it references is defined. Let's look at what that looks like as an example:

![Working UDF](./media/dotnet-interactive/working-udf.png)

> ## Calling a UDF on a DataFrame

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Call a UDF on a DataFrame
```
